
# TODO

Find out why CURRENT_FAULT_U89 goes into two pins on the CPU.

Replace the 4 512Kx8 MRAM chips with one 2Mx8 like the Avalanche 
AS1016204-0108X0PWAY.

Replace the DC/DC converters to ones that have the inductor built in,
to save space.

Move most power handling and watchdogs to the to right hand part of
the board.

Move the RX ax5043s to below and slightly left of the processor.  Move
the RF chain to below that.

Move the TX chain to the right side of the board under the power
handling.

Choose one oscillator and remove the other one.  Actually, just
replace with a "O 16,0-JT22CT-A-P-3,3-LF" from Jauch.

Move JTAG next to processor.

Rotate the CPU so that fewer traces need to be routed under the CPU.
Perhaps replace the CPU with a BGA version to save space, the BGA is
16x16mm verses 22x22mm for the flat pack.  This could also provide
more FLASH and RAM space.

Replace big capacitors with smaller ones, if possible.

Replace the RTC with one that is temperature rated.  Probably only the
MCP7940NT-E/MS from Microchip is suitable.

Possibly rework board stack to have .1mm between the top layer and the
ground layer to reduce trace size required for 50 ohms.

Look at replacing the second from bottom layer with a ground layer so
the bottom layer can be used to route RF traces.  This may not be
necessary, though, with careful layout.

Figure out where the external RF connections need to be so the layout
can be simplified around that.

Possibly replace temperature sensor chips with thermsistors to reduce
space usage and power usage.

Add CAN bus.

Wire VER_BIT2 to the PC104 connector.

Figure out the best way to handle the RX side of the AX5043 chips.  A
single-ended design would save a lot of board space because you can
get rid of one RF power splitter and the balun.  The AX5043 docs are
kind of sparse about how to do that, there's no mention of input
impedance on the receive side, and the transmit impedance info is
unhelpful.  But the full RF filter input as shown in the documentation
probably isn't required.  Maybe a balun on each RF input would be
enough to match impedance, since the signal is already filtered.

Replace receive side with LNA not requiring negative bias.  Probably
use a Qorvo QPL9547 due to its low NF.  Or maybe a GuerillaRF GRF2106W
which doesn't perform quite as well but uses a lot less power.

Put filters on each side of the LNA.

Route signals directly, don't use RF jumpers.

Make the 5V regulator optional or remove it.

Rework transmit RF side.  At least replace the filter with a new one,
probably the LFCG-490+ from MiniCircuits, which also happens to be
temperature rated.

Decoupling, at least on 1.2V, seem inadequate.  Check that out.

Replace unobtanium parts.

Figure out temperature ratings on all chips and get as many to be 105C
or better as possible.


# 2025-07-23

The pins for AX5043_PWR_CTL moved (and I think was renamed) and there
is a new PA_PWR_CTL line.

The Address notes on the two MAX31725MTA+ temperature sensors were
backwards.  Switched the notes so they match the schematic.

VER_BIT2 is not wired to the PC104.

# 2025-07-24

Fixed all wiring that was wrong due to schematic changes.

Changed the RTC crystal to a SMD one and remove the capacitor.  The
datasheet says no capacitor is required.

Cleaned up some crazy traces.